

===== PAGE 1 =====
Proceedings of the 19th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics
Volume 1: Long Papers, pages 7215–7237
March 24-29, 2026 ©2026 Association for Computational Linguistics
User-Centric Evidence Ranking for Attribution and Fact Verification
Guy Alt1
Eran Hirsch1
Serwar Basch2
Ido Dagan1
Oren Glickman1
1Computer Science Department, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel
2UKP Lab, TU Darmstadt, Germany
{guy.alt,eran.hirsch,ido.dagan,oren.glickman}@biu.ac.il,
serwar.basch@tu-darmstadt.de
Abstract
Attribution and fact verification are critical
challenges in natural language processing for
assessing information reliability. While auto-
mated systems and Large Language Models
(LLMs) aim to retrieve and select concise ev-
idence to support or refute claims, they often
present users with either insufficient or overly
redundant information, leading to inefficient
and error-prone verification. To address this,
we propose Evidence Ranking, a novel task that
prioritizes presenting sufficient information as
early as possible in a ranked list. This min-
imizes user reading effort while still making
all available evidence accessible for sequential
verification. We compare two approaches for
the new ranking task: one-shot ranking and
incremental ranking. We introduce a new eval-
uation framework, inspired by information re-
trieval metrics, and construct a unified bench-
mark by aggregating existing fact verification
datasets. Extensive experiments with diverse
models show that incremental ranking strate-
gies better capture complementary evidence
and that LLM-based methods outperform shal-
lower baselines, while still facing challenges
in balancing sufficiency and redundancy. Com-
pared to evidence selection, we conduct a con-
trolled user study and demonstrate that evi-
dence ranking both reduces reading effort and
improves verification. This work provides a
foundational step toward more interpretable,
efficient, and user-aligned information verifica-
tion systems.1
1
Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) can often make
claims that appear plausible but are not grounded
in reliable evidence, often referred to as halluci-
nations (Huang et al., 2025). Such hallucinations
1Code and data are available at: https://github.com/g
uyalt3/User-Centric-Evidence-Ranking-for-Attribu
tion-and-Fact-Verification
Candidate Evidence Sentence
Claim: Telos was an album by a band who formed in New York City
1. Telos marks the first album from Forevermore.
2. Solid State Records released the project on 
July 22, 2014.
3. Forevermore is an American Christian metal 
band from Indianapolis, Indiana, formed in 2009.
5. Signaling in a four star review from Jesus 
Freak Hideout, Michael Weaver responds, 
"Forevermore have a lot to offer metal fans in the 
"Telos" album".
4. They are signed to Solid State Records and 
"Telos" is their first work on the label.
1. Is Veriﬁable? No
Ranked Evidence Sentences
2. Is Veriﬁable? No
Evidence Ranking 
…
…
3. Is Veriﬁable? Yes
    ‘1’ + ‘3’ refutes
Veriﬁer
Sufficient
…
Figure 1: Illustration of the Evidence Ranking task.
Given a claim and candidate evidence sentences, the
system ranks the sentences so that users can stop read-
ing once sufficient evidence is observed. Our evaluation
simulates this process by measuring the number of sen-
tences a user would read. Green sentences denote rele-
vant evidence, and yellow denotes redundant evidence
that can be skipped.
create misinformation problems, making it difficult
for users to distinguish between supported and un-
supported content (Si et al., 2024). To facilitate ver-
ification of their output, LLMs are often instructed
to attribute claims with self-citation evidence (Gao
et al., 2023). Users are then expected to read this
evidence to confirm the claims are supported. A
similar situation arises for human fact-checkers,
who also rely on automated fact-checking systems
to assess claims (Nakov et al., 2021).
In both attribution and fact verification settings,
the core challenge lies in efficiently identifying a
minimal set of evidence that justifies or refutes a
claim, without overwhelming the user with irrel-
evant or redundant information. As illustrated in
Fig. 1, there can be many evidence sentences, but
Sentences 1 and 3 are sufficient to refute the claim
7215



===== PAGE 2 =====
that the album “Telos” was by a band formed in
New York City. Sentence 1 conveys that “Telos” is
an album by the band Forevermore, and Sentence
3 clarifies that the band was actually formed in In-
dianapolis. Replacing Sentence 1 with Sentence 5
would also be considered sufficient, as they convey
the same information. A user trying to verify a
claim would like to read the minimal number of
sentences necessary - Sentences 1 and 3, or Sen-
tences 3 and 5. This exemplifies that evidence sen-
tences exhibit both complementary and redundant
characteristics.
Consequently, to simplify the verification pro-
cess, research has focused on evidence selection
systems that output a minimal set of evidence (Li
et al., 2025; Hirsch et al., 2025; Zheng et al., 2024;
Atanasova et al., 2022; Wan et al., 2021). This for-
mulation naturally leads to evaluating sufficiency
using overlap-based metrics such as precision and
recall. However, this approach presents a funda-
mental trade-off: striving for high precision can
inadvertently filter out crucial pieces of evidence,
while aiming for high recall can result in an over-
whelming amount of unnecessary information for
the user.
To overcome this inherent trade-off, we propose
a user-aligned formulation of evidence selection
that reflects how people verify claims in practice.
In practical verification settings, users typically pro-
cess information sequentially, discontinuing their
search once they have gathered sufficient evidence
to either support or refute a claim (Hausmann and
Läge, 2008). Following the example in Fig. 1, after
reading three sentences, a user would refute the
claim that “Telos was an album by a band who
formed in New York City,” given that the band was
formed in Indianapolis. Specifically, in both human
fact-checking and LLM attribution scenarios, we
propose to reframe evidence selection from a bi-
nary decision to a ranking task. Rather than select-
ing a fixed set of evidence, our goal is to generate
a global ranking of all candidate sentences, such
that sufficient evidence appears as early as possi-
ble. Importantly, we do not impose any required
order among sentences within a sufficient evidence
set; instead, success is determined by whether the
sentences belonging to a minimal sufficient set
are ranked early, regardless of their internal or-
dering. Overall, this formulation allows users to
verify evidence sequentially, reading only as much
as needed.
To assess how effectively methods surface in-
formative evidence early while reaching minimal
sufficiency, we develop a suite of evaluation met-
rics inspired by standard Information Retrieval
(IR) measures, and construct a unified benchmark
from existing fact verification datasets. We inves-
tigate a diverse set of modeling approaches, in-
cluding embedding-based similarity methods, fine-
tuned Natural Language Inference (NLI) models,
fine-tuned reasoning-based rerankers and LLMs.
In addition, we adapt existing evidence selection
techniques to an incremental ranking formulation,
where each sentence is chosen in the context of
previously selected evidence. This encourages a
global, non-redundant ranking of candidate sen-
tences.
Our experiments show that incremental strate-
gies generally surface complementary evidence
more efficiently than one-shot approaches, and that
LLM-based methods achieve the strongest overall
performance with an MRR of 0.75. However, our
analysis of user reading effort indicates substantial
room for improvement. In order to compare our
proposed evidence ranking to standard evidence se-
lection, we conduct a controlled user study where
users are instructed to verify claims. We show that
evidence ranking leads users to read fewer sen-
tences while achieving more accurate verification
decisions. Taken together, our formulation, bench-
mark, metrics, and comparative analysis establish
a foundation for evidence ranking, advancing to-
ward more interpretable, efficient, and trustworthy
verification systems.
2
Background
Evidence verification, whether performed by hu-
man users or by automated models, presents sig-
nificant challenges. For instance, users interact-
ing with LLMs often manually inspect multiple
source sentences or documents to confirm the va-
lidity of the generated claims, which can be time-
consuming and error-prone (Slobodkin et al., 2024).
To mitigate this, localized attribution has been pro-
posed to pinpoint relevant evidence and reduce the
user’s reading burden (Radevski et al., 2025; Hirsch
et al., 2025). Beyond LLM attribution, both auto-
mated and human fact verification critically rely
on evidence selection methods. These methods
aim to identify supporting or refuting evidence,
driven by needs for efficiency (Jiang et al., 2021)
and interpretability (Paranjape et al., 2020). Criti-
cally, despite differing retrieval mechanisms, both
7216



===== PAGE 3 =====
attribution and fact verification share a common
evidence selection phase: identifying and reason-
ing over a sufficient and non-redundant evidence
set to validate a claim. The evidence is most fre-
quently segmented at the sentence-level (Thorne
et al., 2018; Kamoi et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2020).
A common approach for evidence selection is to
rerank sentences, then choose from the top-k. Scor-
ing sentences for reranking uses similarity-based
over dense embedding representations, or probabil-
ities from fine-tuned NLI models. While Schuster
et al. (2022); Jiang et al. (2021) rank each evidence
separately, Malviya and Katsigiannis (2024); Fajcik
et al. (2023) propose hierarchical ranking, suggest-
ing models benefit from selecting complementary
information rather than treating all sentences in-
dependently. Although ranking was used as an
evidence selection strategy, it was not evaluated as
a ranking task. Traditionally, evidence selection is
evaluated as a binary task, with standard metrics
like precision/recall or F1 scores against predeter-
mined unordered evidence sets. Such metrics are
problematic, as methods returning a single set risk
omitting critical information or failing to remove
redundant or unnecessary evidence. Overall, exist-
ing evidence selection evaluation does not capture
the trade-offs between conciseness and sufficiency.
Other approaches for evidence selection include
fine-tuning models for the task (Radevski et al.,
2025; Paranjape et al., 2020), and zero-shot prompt-
ing of LLMs (Li et al., 2025; Hirsch et al., 2025).
Since these approaches do not provide a score for
each sentence, they do not naturally apply to the
evidence ranking task.
Finally, text reranking has been explored in web
search passage reranking (Sun et al., 2023; Liu
et al., 2025). While the methods are applicable to
our setting, they were not evaluated for facilitating
fact verification. Accordingly, our experimental
settings includes such methods as a baseline.
3
Evidence Ranking
We formulate evidence selection as a ranking prob-
lem designed for user verification. The goal is
to order all evidence sentences so that a minimal,
sufficient set appears first mirroring real-world be-
havior, where users stop reading once they possess
enough information (Hausmann and Läge, 2008).
As noted in Section 2, we operate on unordered
sentence-level evidence sets.
3.1
Task Definition
Given a claim c and a set of candidate evidence
sentences S = {s1, . . . , sn}, the goal is to pro-
duce a ranking P = ⟨sp1, . . . , spn⟩of S. In this
setting, sentences are examined sequentially ac-
cording to the ranking. At any decision point i, the
accumulated prefix set Pi = ⟨sp1, . . . , spi⟩, may
be sufficient. A prefix Pi is sufficient for claim c
if the there exists a subset E ⊆Pi that confidently
verifies or refutes the claim c.
Since multiple sufficient sets may exist, we fo-
cus on the smallest prefix reaching sufficiency: the
Minimal Sufficient Rank (MSR). The objective is
to minimize the MSR for each claim, surfacing a
minimal sufficient set as early as possible to re-
duce user effort. Formal definitions are provided
in Appendix A.
3.2
Evaluation
As users examine evidence sequentially to decides
when they have enough information to confidently
assess the claim’s veracity (Goyal et al., 2023),
our metrics evaluate the efficiency of reaching suf-
ficiency. We adapt three established IR metrics
to this setting. Our primary metric is a modified
Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR) which quantifies
how quickly a ranking reveals a minimal sufficient
set (efficiency). As a complementary diagnostic,
we also report Success Rate (SR), which assesses
whether sufficiency is achieved exactly at the ear-
liest theoretically optimal position (strict optimal-
ity). For completeness, we additionally include
an adapted Normalized Discounted Cumulative
Gain (NDCG) as a broader measure of ranking
quality (see Appendix A.3 for detailed definition).
Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR).
Building on
the well-established Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR)
used in information retrieval (Voorhees and Tice,
2000), we adapted the metric to evaluate how ef-
ficiently a ranking surfaces a minimal sufficient
set of evidence. MRR is the central metric in our
evaluation because it directly aligns with the goal
of minimizing the number of sentences a user must
read. In the classic retrieval setting, the ideal recip-
rocal rank is always 1, however, in our setting, a
single sentence may not be sufficient to verify or
refute a claim. As a result, the ideal point of suffi-
ciency may occur later in the ranking, depending
on the minimal set required. To account for this
variability, we normalize the observed rank by sub-
tracting the Ideal Minimal Sufficient Rank (IMSR),
7217



===== PAGE 4 =====
ensuring that scores remain comparable across in-
stances with different sufficiency requirements. For
a formal definition of our MRR see Appendix A.1.
In the example shown in Fig. 1, the MSR is 3
and the IMSR is 2, resulting in a reciprocal rank
of
1
3−2+1 = 0.5. This value has an intuitive inter-
pretation as a measure of additional reading effort
beyond the minimal sufficient set, reflecting user
effort in practice. In this specific case, the user
reads one additional sentence beyond the minimal
sufficient set, calculated as
1
0.5 −1 = 1.
Success Rate (SR).
Complementing MRR, we
define a stricter criterion inspired by Success met-
rics used in ranking tasks (Matsubara et al., 2022).
Specifically, Top-1 accuracy reports the proportion
of cases where the top-ranked item is correct. Anal-
ogously, our Success Rate (SR) assesses whether
a system achieves sufficiency precisely at the em-
pirically optimal position in the ranking. Formally,
given the Ideal Minimal Sufficient Rank (IMSR) of
a candidate set S for claim c, SR is defined as the
sufficiency at IMSR. For a formal definition of SR
see Appendix A.2.
At the dataset level, mean SR corresponds to
the proportion of claims for which the system’s
ranking achieves sufficiency exactly at the optimal
point. This measure also ranges from 0 to 1, with
1 attained only when the system consistently pro-
duces an optimal ordering of evidence across all
claims. In the example appearing in Fig. 1, the SR
would be 0 as the ranking did not optimally place
two sufficient sentences at the top.
4
Datasets and Benchmark Construction
To evaluate evidence ranking, a benchmark must
provide claims alongside candidate and gold evi-
dence sets. As no existing dataset is designed for
this sequential, user-focused task, we construct a
new benchmark by adapting and unifying three
widely-used fact verification resources: FEVER
(Thorne et al., 2018), HoVer (Jiang et al., 2020),
and WICE (Kamoi et al., 2023). Our goal was
to create a diverse testbed that spans the primary
challenges in evidence retrieval. Importantly, the
gold evidence sets in these datasets are minimal
and decontextualized, a property we preserve in
our benchmark.
Following our task definition (Section 3.1), any
prefix of the ranked candidates that contains an
entire gold evidence set is considered sufficient.
This reframing allows us to measure how quickly
FEVER
HoVer
WICE
Number of Instances
400
400
200
Avg. Candidate Evidence Set Size (Sents)
12.8
34.0
41.8
Avg. Number of Gold Evidence Sets
2.1
1.0
4.9
Avg. Gold Set Size (Sents)
1.4
2.8
2.8
Avg. Optimal Gold Evidence Set Size (Sents)
1.3
2.8
2.0
Table 1: Overview of our curated datasets, showing the
number of instances and key statistics for candidate and
gold evidence sets.
different methods surface minimal evidence for
verification. Next, we describe the characteristics
of each dataset, followed by a discussion of our
benchmark construction.
FEVER.
A large-scale dataset of claims gener-
ated through edits of Wikipedia sentences. Anno-
tators identified one or more gold evidence sets
sufficient for claim verification, with expert review
ensuring annotation quality. Evidence sets range
from single-sentence sufficiency to multi-sentence
justifications. We exclude claims labeled as NOT
ENOUGH INFO, since no gold evidence is available
and ranking cannot be meaningfully evaluated.
HoVer.
Designed for multi-hop reasoning, HoVer
contains claims spanning multiple Wikipedia arti-
cles. Constructed from extensions of HotpotQA
(Yang et al., 2018), HoVer annotates longer reason-
ing chains (2-6 hops) that combine multiple sen-
tences into a single gold set. The dataset stresses
ranking systems to prioritize complementary evi-
dence and handle distributed justification.
WICE.
Derived from Wikipedia, WICE contains
naturally occurring claims with candidate evidence
retrieved from Common Crawl. Annotations are
performed at the sub-claim level, and gold claim-
level sets are constructed by combining one sup-
porting sentence per sub-claim. Although smaller
in scale, WICE introduces more realistic cases
where evidence is distributed across heterogeneous
sources and claims are only partially supported.
Benchmark construction.
Table 1 summarizes
key statistics of our curated dataset. By aggregat-
ing these datasets, our benchmark spans a spec-
trum of verification challenges: single-hop and
multi-hop evidence, claims with partial evidence,
and claims with multiple sufficient evidence sets,
adding complexity to the ranking task. We se-
lected 400 instances each from FEVER and HoVer
to capture complementary characteristics of these
large datasets. FEVER mainly provides single-
hop evidence with multiple gold evidence sets,
7218



===== PAGE 5 =====
Figure 2: Illustration of our proposed incremental rank-
ing approach. (A) The naive one-shot algorithm pro-
duces a complete, global ranking of all evidence sen-
tences in a single forward pass. (B) The incremental
algorithm iteratively builds the ranking.
while HoVer offers multi-hop evidence with a sin-
gle gold evidence set. From the smaller WICE
dataset, we sampled 200 instances to maximize di-
versity, covering single- and multi-hop evidence,
varying numbers of gold evidence sets, and partial
evidence. To validate the reliability of the gold
evidence, we manually inspected random samples
across datasets and confirmed that the annotated
sets are sufficient, non-contradictory, and exhaus-
tive with respect to each claim. Full details are
provided in Appendix B.
5
Modeling
To explore the proposed Evidence Ranking task,
we follow previous work (Section 2) and consider
four families of approaches that differ in how they
assess the relationship between claims and candi-
date evidence: (i) embedding-based similarity, (ii)
fine-tuned natural language inference (NLI) mod-
els, (iii) fine-tuned reasoning-based rerankers and
(iv) large language models (LLMs). Each family
can be instantiated in two algorithmic modes: one-
shot, where a full ranking is produced in a single
pass, and incremental, where sentences are ranked
iteratively by conditioning on previously selected
evidence (Fig. 2). This unified view allows us to
compare lightweight baselines with more sophis-
ticated methods under the same framework (See
Appendix C for full implementation details).
5.1
Embedding-based Methods
Embedding similarity provides a lightweight proxy
for evidence relevance. Candidate sentences and
the claim are encoded using a pretrained embed-
ding model, and cosine similarity is used to rank
sentences by closeness to the claim. While efficient,
this approach is local, evaluating each sentence in-
dependently and ignoring redundancy or comple-
mentarity across evidence. To address this, we also
implement an incremental variant: after selecting
the most similar sentence, subsequent selections
are made by averaging each remaining candidate’s
embedding with those of the already-selected sen-
tences and computing the cosine similarity to the
claim embedding.
Instantiation.
BAAI/bge-large-en-v1.5
(BAAI, 2023) embedding model is used for its
strong results in the Massive Text Embedding
Benchmark (Muennighoff et al., 2023).
5.2
Fine-tuned NLI-based Methods
Natural Language Inference (NLI) models are
trained to identify entailment, contradiction, and
neutral relationships, making them natural can-
didates for evidence ranking. Following Schus-
ter et al. (2022), we score each candidate sen-
tence against the claim with a fine-tuned NLI
model, obtaining separate rankings for ENTAILS
and CONTRADICTS. To select which ranking to use,
we take the top-k sentences from each (k = 2)
and form two short texts with ENTAILS-first and
CONTRADICTS-first orderings.
The NLI model
scores both texts; we average label scores, select
the higher-scoring label, and rank all sentences ac-
cording to their score under the selected label.
Since NLI models are typically fine-tuned on
single-sentence premises, there is no straightfor-
ward approach to create an incremental, global
NLI-method that could improve over the local, one-
shot approach. This limitation is further explored
in Section 6.4.
Instantiation. NLI-DeBERTa-v3-large entail-
ment model is fine-tuned on multiple NLI datasets,
and is used for its strong results on the SNLI and
MNLI datasets (Reimers and Gurevych, 2019).
5.3
Fine-tuned Reasoning-Based Reranker
Methods
Fine-tuned reasoning-based rerankers generate a
global ranking of candidate sentences given a claim,
making them well-suited for evidence selection
tasks that require prioritizing informative and non-
redundant sentences. Unlike NLI-based methods,
which score each sentence individually, rerankers
directly output an ordered list of candidates. We
use the same reranker for both stages: first, an iter-
ative filtering process is applied to identify the top
20 candidates, and then a one-shot global ranking is
7219



===== PAGE 6 =====
produced over these 20 sentences. Since fine-tuned
rerankers are trained with a listwise objective, they
rely on joint comparison of candidate sentences;
consequently, there is no natural incremental vari-
ant, as ranking sentences one at a time removes the
relative context required for accurate ordering.
Instantiation.
We use ReasonRank-7B (Liu
et al., 2025), a fine-tuned model specialized for
reasoning-based evidence ranking. The model out-
puts a global ranking of candidate sentences that
favors informative and non-redundant evidence.
5.4
LLM-based Methods
LLMs demonstrate strong zero-shot reasoning abil-
ities, particularly in NLI and fact verification tasks
(Zhang et al., 2023; Pisarevskaya and Zubiaga,
2025). Unlike previous local approaches, LLMs
consider all candidate sentences jointly, produc-
ing a global ranking that prioritizes sufficiency and
avoids redundancy. In the incremental variant, the
LLM iteratively selects the most informative sen-
tence conditioned on those already chosen.
Instantiation. For our main experiments, we use
GPT-4o (Hurst et al., 2024) and the open-source
Qwen3-235B (Yang et al., 2025), both of which
demonstrate strong capabilities in factual reasoning
and evidence selection. We include both a closed
commercial model and an open-source model to
ensure reproducibility and wider accessibility. To
further study the effect of architecture, scale, and
explicit reasoning capabilities, we also experiment
with alternative LLMs and large reasoning models
(LRMs) (Section 6.3).
6
Results and Analyses
6.1
Main Results
Our main results are summarized in Table 2. We
next analyze the key differences between the rank-
ing methods and the insights revealed by our met-
rics.
LLM-based methods achieve the strongest over-
all performance.
LLM-based approaches con-
sistently outperform all other methods across all
metrics. Incremental LLM ranking with GPT-4o
achieves an MRR of 0.75 and a success rate of
62.9%, while incremental Qwen3-235B achieves
the same MRR and a slightly lower success rate of
62.4%. These results demonstrate LLMs can effec-
tively capture both highly informative and comple-
Ranking Method
MRR ↑
SR (%) ↑
One-Shot Similarity
0.47±0.01
32.4±1.5
Incremental Similarity
0.49±0.01
33.5±1.5
One-Shot Fine-tuned NLI
0.31±0.01
22.5±1.3
One-Shot Fine-tuned Reranker
0.67±0.01
55.1±1.5
GPT-4o
One-Shot LLM
0.69±0.01
56.2±1.6
Incremental LLM
0.75±0.01
62.9±1.5
Qwen3-235B-A22B-Instruct
One-Shot LLM
0.71±0.01
60.0±1.5
Incremental LLM
0.75±0.01
62.4±1.5
Table 2: Evaluation results across different ranking
methods along with their standard error (SEM, see Ap-
pendix H for details).
mentary sentences, while avoiding redundancies.2
Incremental
strategies
outperform
non-
incremental
ones.
Leveraging
previously
selected sentences improves the ability to prioritize
complementary evidence and avoid redundancy.
For GPT-4o, incremental ranking improves MRR
from 0.69 to 0.75 and raises the success rate
from 56.2% to 62.9%.
Qwen3-235B shows a
similar pattern, with MRR increasing from 0.71
to 0.75 and success rate from 60.0% to 62.4%.
Similarity-based methods exhibit the same trend,
though with smaller gains: MRR increases from
0.47 to 0.49 and success rate from 32.4% to 33.5%,
showing that even simple ranking approaches
benefit
from
leveraging
previously
selected
sentences.
One-shot fine-tuned reranker remains lim-
ited compared to incremental LLM ranking.
Despite being a task-specific model fine-tuned
for listwise ranking, the fine-tuned ReasonRank-
7B reranker underperforms LLM-based methods.
While its performance is competitive with one-shot
general-purpose LLMs, it consistently falls short of
the strongest LLM results in both MRR and success
rate. This finding indicates that task-specific rank-
ing fine-tuning alone is insufficient to match the
evidence prioritization capabilities of large general-
purpose LLMs in verification settings.
Similarity-based methods outperform fine-
tuned NLI-based approaches.
The one-shot
similarity-based method achieves 0.47 MRR and
32.4% success rate, compared to 0.31 MRR and
2See Appendix D for complementary NDCG analysis.
7220



===== PAGE 7 =====
Method
1
2
3+
One-Shot Similarity
0.74±0.01
0.39±0.01
0.19±0.01
Incremental Similarity
0.74±0.01
0.44±0.02
0.18±0.01
One-Shot Fine-tuned NLI
0.67±0.02
0.12±0.01
0.05±0.00
One-Shot Fine-tuned Reranker
0.90±0.01
0.64±0.02
0.39±0.02
GPT-4o
One-Shot LLM
0.92±0.01
0.64±0.02
0.44±0.02
Incremental LLM
0.94±0.00
0.73±0.01
0.51±0.02
Qwen3-235B-A22B-Instruct
One-Shot LLM
0.93±0.01
0.67±0.02
0.47±0.02
Incremental LLM
0.94±0.00
0.71±0.01
0.52±0.02
Table 3: MRR of each ranking method for instances
grouped by the size of their optimal gold evidence set,
along with their standard error (SEM, see Appendix H
for details).
22.5% success rate for fine-tuned NLI ranking. In
Section 6.4, we explore this limitation and find that
NLI models mostly fail in instances with multi-
sentence evidence.
There remains headroom for improvement.
In
Table 3 we report MRR segmented by the size of
the minimal sufficient set. We find a significant de-
crease in performance as the requirement for more
evidence sentences increases. When 3+ sentences
are necessary for verification, MRR reaches a max-
imum of 0.52, compared to 0.94 for 1 sentence.
In addition, as shown in Table 2, the success rate
peaks at only 62.9%, reflecting that even the best
methods do not always rank all critical sentences
early. These results highlight that while current
approaches substantially reduce the reading bur-
den compared to weaker baselines, achieving fully
efficient coverage remains an open challenge.
6.2
Analysis of the User Reading Effort
To better understand the user experience when in-
teracting with evidence ranking methods, we report
the proportion of instances verified as a function of
the number of sentences that the user has to read
(Fig. 3). In Section 7, we describe a user study
with actual users, which supports the results of this
analysis.
Although most claims can be verified with three
sentences or fewer, and the optimal evidence re-
quires at most six, we find that all methods oc-
casionally require reading ten or more sentences.
This means that users often review substantially
more sentences than necessary and may withdraw
before seeing all relevant evidence. We include in
the Appendix an accumulative variant of this figure
MRR ↑
SR (%) ↑
LLMs
4o
0.83±0.01
73.0±2.0
4o-mini
0.79±0.01
68.0±2.0
LLaMA-3.3-70B
0.83±0.01
74.0±2.0
LLaMA-4-Maverick-17B
0.80±0.01
70.0±2.0
Qwen3-235B-A22B-Instruct
0.83±0.01
73.8±2.0
LRMs (Reasoning Models)
o3
0.88±0.01
79.4±1.8
o3-mini
0.87±0.01
78.4±1.8
Qwen3-235B-A22B-Thinking
0.63±0.01
52.6±2.2
Table 4: Performance of different LLMs and LRMs
using the incremental LLM approach.
(Fig. 8), which provides more insights on model
behavior.
6.3
Exploration of different LLMs and LRMs
Given that the incremental LLM-based approach
performs better than others, we set out to ex-
plore the differences between LLM architectures,
model sizes, and LLMs versus large reasoning
models (LRMs), providing a deeper understand-
ing of how these model characteristics influence
ranking performance. We evaluated four additional
non-reasoning LLMs (OpenAI, 2024; Meta, 2024,
2025; Yang et al., 2025) and three LRMs (OpenAI,
2025a,b; Yang et al., 2025). Due to the high cost
of closed-source models, we used only half of the
dataset described in Section 4.
The results are reported in Table 4.
o3 and
o3-mini achieve the strongest results across met-
rics, indicating that the reasoning-optimized o3
line provides tangible improvements over 4o and
4o-mini, with the more compact o3-mini vari-
ant maintaining performance close to the full o3
model. The open-source LLaMA and Qwen3 LLMs
perform competitively with 4O. By contrast, the
Qwen3-235B-Thinking model exhibits a notable
drop in performance. In our manual inspection, we
observed that it frequently provides detailed per-
evidence reasoning, but it fails to output a selection
for the next sentence. We further discuss this in
Appendix E.
6.4
Fine-tuned NLI-based Models
Table 3 reveals a key limitation of fine-tuned
NLI models: they struggle to rank multi-sentence
evidence, even when compared to the simpler
similarity-based approach. We hypothesize that
this stems from a fundamental limitation of these
fine-tuned NLI models: they frequently struggle
7221



===== PAGE 8 =====
Figure 3: Proportion of verified instances as a function of the number of sentences read (non-cumulative).
to assign sufficiently high scores to partially sup-
porting sentences when compared to neutral ones.
Specifically, if a sentence contains crucial verifi-
cation details but is predominantly neutral in its
overall sentiment, the fine-tuned NLI model may
assign it a relatively weak score for either support
or refute. This makes it difficult for such sentences
to be effectively surfaced in ranking. In contrast,
similarity-based ranking, by leveraging semantic
or lexical closeness, often succeeds in grouping
together more sentences that collectively support
or refute the claim. Furthermore, our experimen-
tation with an incremental version of the NLI ap-
proach also showed it to underperform the one-shot
method, with more details provided in Appendix F.
6.5
Qualitative Analysis
To further corroborate our main takeaways, we con-
ducted a manual analysis of a representative ex-
ample, tracing the ranking order for each method
until a sufficient evidence set was fully covered
(though not necessarily the optimal one). This ex-
ample highlights key differences between methods,
as it contains multiple gold evidence sets and an
optimal gold evidence set requiring more than one
sentence, properties that make it well suited to re-
veal variations in efficiency and ranking behavior.
The incremental LLM-based method ranked key
evidence earlier while largely avoiding both redun-
dant and irrelevant sentences. The one-shot LLM-
based approach, as well as the fine-tuned reranker,
behaved similarly, occasionally including irrele-
vant sentences. Similarity-based methods tended to
surface more irrelevant sentences, while fine-tuned
NLI-based methods were the least efficient, often
requiring review of many unrelated sentences. The
distinction between redundant and irrelevant sen-
tences is important: redundant sentences provide
relevant information but are unnecessary if simi-
lar evidence has already been presented, whereas
irrelevant sentences do not contribute to verifying
the claim at all. A detailed analysis of this exam-
ple, including the full ranking order, is provided in
Appendix G.
7
User Study
We conducted a controlled user study to assess
whether incremental evidence ranking reduces user
effort while maintaining verification accuracy. The
study focuses on two central research questions.
First, we evaluate whether evidence ranking im-
proves efficiency without harming accuracy. Sec-
ond, we examine whether users can successfully
identify the stopping point where enough evidence
was presented to make a verification decision. To-
gether, these evaluate both the practical benefits of
incremental evidence ranking and the validity of
the “minimal sufficiency” assumption that under-
lies our task formulation.
7.1
Setup
Five fluent English speakers with a computer-
science background participated in the study. We
used 100 claims from our curated dataset and eval-
uated two systems:
• Evidence ranking: We utilized the incremen-
tal LLM evidence ranking with GPT-4o.
• LLM evidence selection: We utilized the
LLM evidence selection method used in
(Hirsch et al., 2025), adapted to the sentence-
level.
For evidence ranking, our interface allows users
to consume ranked evidence incrementally and stop
when the information encountered feels sufficient.
7222



===== PAGE 9 =====
At this point, users must make a verification deci-
sion. For evidence selection, the interface presents
all selected evidence, and the user has to make a
verification decision based only on that evidence.
To emphasize, in the evidence selection variant, the
users have no control on the number of sentences
they got.
Further details on the study design, trial assign-
ment, and interface are provided in Appendix I.
7.2
Results
To assess how users interact with different evidence
presentation methods, we analyzed verification ac-
curacy and reading effort across the two conditions.
If participants chose can’t decide before reading
all available evidence sentences, we interpret this
as the user “giving up” on verifying the claim, ef-
fectively concluding that it is neither supported nor
refuted.
Table 5 summarizes the main findings. Partic-
ipants achieved higher verification success with
evidence ranking (94%) compared to evidence se-
lection (74%). Incorrect label choices were rare
in both settings (at most 3 cases per condition),
while evidence selection produced substantially
more can’t decide outcomes (23% vs. 5%), sug-
gesting that its evidence sets were often insufficient
for users to reach a definitive verdict.
The evidence ranking approach also reduced the
reading effort: participants read an average of 2.48
sentences before making a decision, compared to
3.85 with evidence selection. To contextualize this
behavior, we compared the number of sentences
that users read to the sizes of the minimal gold-
sufficient evidence sets. Based on gold annota-
tions, users are required to read on average only
1.88 sentences for complete verification, yet read
2.48, which represents an average surplus of 0.60
sentences. This suggests that users typically read
slightly beyond the minimal evidence to increase
confidence, while still benefiting from substantial
efficiency gains.
We further analyzed how often participants read
more evidence than was necessary. The examples
over-read rate was 10% for evidence ranking, com-
pared to 35% for evidence selection. This demon-
strates that incremental ranking not only improves
efficiency, supporting our first research question,
but also helps users identify the appropriate stop-
ping point for verification, addressing our second
question.
Overall, the results show that incremental evi-
Metric
Evidence Ranking
Evidence Selection
Success rate
94%
74%
Wrong decision rate
1%
3%
Undecided rate
5%
23%
Average sentences read
2.48
3.85
Examples over-read
10%
35%
Table 5: User study results comparing LLM incremental
evidence ranking with LLM evidence selection. The
gold average number of sentences is 1.88. Over-read
refers to instances where the user read more sentences
than necessary.
dence ranking enhances verification accuracy and
reduces reading effort, supporting our first research
question on efficiency and our second question on
users’ ability to identify sufficient evidence. These
findings further validate the motivation for design-
ing evidence ranking methods.
8
Conclusions
In this work, we discussed the user’s perspective in
both human fact-checking and LLM attribution sce-
narios, and repurposed the evidence selection task
as an evidence ranking task. We proposed novel
evaluation metrics and experimented with both ex-
isting and novel modeling approaches. Our key
results show that LRMs work best and that ranking
incrementally can further improve results. LRMs
are notoriously costly, and future work could fo-
cus on methods fine-tuned for the evidence ranking
task. In addition, future work could experiment
with datasets where evidence can simultaneously
include both supporting and contradictory state-
ments (Nachshoni et al., 2025). Overall, our results
underscore the feasibility and significant potential
of this task to deliver substantial benefits to users.
7223



===== PAGE 10 =====
Limitations
Our work focuses on standard verification datasets
with human-annotated evidence, which provide
a well-controlled environment for evaluating ev-
idence ranking. However, these datasets do not
supply any internal ordering of evidence sentences,
meaning that coherence-based ordering cannot be
evaluated within our current setup. Developing
and assessing methods for producing coherent evi-
dence orderings is therefore an important direction
for future work. The datasets also primarily contain
short, focused claims, and extending our approach
to longer or more complex claims is a natural next
step for future research. We additionally conducted
a user study to examine how our ranking methods
support users in practice. While informative, the
study represents an initial exploration, involving
a small participant group and a curated subset of
examples. Future studies with larger, more diverse
populations would allow for a more comprehen-
sive understanding of the practical benefits of the
proposed approach.
Ethical Considerations
Our task simulates the process a user goes through
when verifying claims, reading evidence until suf-
ficient information is found to support or refute a
claim. Errors in the evidence ranking could mislead
users into assuming a stronger or weaker connec-
tion between the claim and the retrieved evidence.
AI-assisted writing tools were used to improve
clarity and coherence, and all content was reviewed
and edited by the authors for accuracy.
The qualitative analysis and user study reported
in this work involved manual annotation by five
undergraduate Computer Science students. The
participants were recruited internally from the au-
thors’ institution. Before the study, all participants
were informed about the research goals and the in-
tended use of the collected data. Participation was
strictly voluntary; no financial compensation was
provided, and the study was conducted in accor-
dance with the institution’s ethical guidelines. All
data was collected and analyzed anonymously.
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank our reviewers for their con-
structive suggestions and comments. This work
was supported in part by the Israel Science Foun-
dation (grants no. 2827/21 and 3182/25). SB is
funded by the German Federal Ministry of Re-
search, Technology and Space (BMFTR) under
the promotional reference 01ZZ2314H (GeMTeX).
References
Pepa Atanasova, Jakob Grue Simonsen, Christina Li-
oma, and Isabelle Augenstein. 2022. Fact checking
with insufficient evidence. Transactions of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics, 10:746–763.
BAAI. 2023. Baai/bge-large-en-v1.5: Baai general em-
bedding model. https://huggingface.co/BAAI/
bge-large-en-v1.5.
Martin Fajcik, Petr Motlicek, and Pavel Smrz. 2023.
Claim-dissector: An interpretable fact-checking sys-
tem with joint re-ranking and veracity prediction. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: ACL 2023, pages 10184–10205, Toronto,
Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Tianyu Gao, Howard Yen, Jiatong Yu, and Danqi Chen.
2023. Enabling large language models to generate
text with citations. In Proceedings of the 2023 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing, pages 6465–6488, Singapore. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Navita Goyal, Eleftheria Briakou, Amanda Liu, Connor
Baumler, Claire Bonial, Jeffrey Micher, Clare Voss,
Marine Carpuat, and Hal Daumé III. 2023. What else
do I need to know? the effect of background informa-
tion on users’ reliance on QA systems. In Proceed-
ings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages 3313–3330,
Singapore. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
Daniel Hausmann and Damian Läge. 2008. Sequen-
tial evidence accumulation in decision making: The
individual desired level of confidence can explain
the extent of information acquisition. Judgment and
Decision making, 3(3):229–243.
Eran Hirsch, Aviv Slobodkin, David Wan, Elias Stengel-
Eskin, Mohit Bansal, and Ido Dagan. 2025. LAQuer:
Localized attribution queries in content-grounded
generation. In Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 15355–15370, Vi-
enna, Austria. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Lei Huang, Weijiang Yu, Weitao Ma, Weihong Zhong,
Zhangyin Feng, Haotian Wang, Qianglong Chen,
Weihua Peng, Xiaocheng Feng, Bing Qin, and Ting
Liu. 2025. A survey on hallucination in large lan-
guage models: Principles, taxonomy, challenges, and
open questions. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst., 43(2).
Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam
Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow,
Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford, and 1
7224



===== PAGE 11 =====
others. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21276.
Kalervo Järvelin and Jaana Kekäläinen. 2002. Cumu-
lated gain-based evaluation of ir techniques. ACM
Trans. Inf. Syst., 20(4):422–446.
Kelvin Jiang, Ronak Pradeep, and Jimmy Lin. 2021. Ex-
ploring listwise evidence reasoning with t5 for fact
verification. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natu-
ral Language Processing (Volume 2: Short Papers),
pages 402–410, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Yichen Jiang, Shikha Bordia, Zheng Zhong, Charles
Dognin, Maneesh Singh, and Mohit Bansal. 2020.
HoVer: A dataset for many-hop fact extraction and
claim verification. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020, pages
3441–3460, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Ryo Kamoi, Tanya Goyal, Juan Diego Rodriguez, and
Greg Durrett. 2023. WiCE: Real-world entailment
for claims in Wikipedia. In Proceedings of the 2023
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing, pages 7561–7583, Singapore. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Xiangci Li, Sihao Chen, Rajvi Kapadia, Jessica Ouyang,
and Fan Zhang. 2025. Minimal evidence group iden-
tification for claim verification. In Proceedings of
the 5th Workshop on Trustworthy NLP (TrustNLP
2025), pages 103–111, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Wenhan Liu, Xinyu Ma, Weiwei Sun, Yutao Zhu,
Yuchen Li,
Dawei Yin,
and Zhicheng Dou.
2025.
Reasonrank:
Empowering passage rank-
ing with strong reasoning ability.
Preprint,
arXiv:2508.07050.
Shrikant Malviya and Stamos Katsigiannis. 2024. Evi-
dence retrieval for fact verification using multi-stage
reranking. In Findings of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024, pages 7295–
7308, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Yoshitomo Matsubara, Luca Soldaini, Eric Lind, and
Alessandro Moschitti. 2022. Ensemble transformer
for efficient and accurate ranking tasks: an applica-
tion to question answering systems. In Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.
Meta. 2024. Llama 3.3-70b-instruct-turbo: Model card
and prompt formats. https://www.llama.com/do
cs/model-cards-and-prompt-formats/llama3_
3/.
Meta. 2025. Llama 4: Multimodal mixture-of-experts
model. https://www.llama.com/docs/model-c
ards-and-prompt-formats/llama4/.
Niklas Muennighoff, Nouamane Tazi, Loic Magne, and
Nils Reimers. 2023. MTEB: Massive text embedding
benchmark. In Proceedings of the 17th Conference
of the European Chapter of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics, pages 2014–2037, Dubrovnik,
Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Eviatar Nachshoni, Arie Cattan, Shmuel Amar, Ori
Shapira, and Ido Dagan. 2025.
Consensus or
conflict?
fine-grained evaluation of conflicting
answers in question-answering.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.12355.
Preslav Nakov, David Corney, Maram Hasanain, Firoj
Alam, Tamer Elsayed, Alberto Barrón-Cedeño, Paolo
Papotti, Shaden Shaar, and Giovanni Da San Martino.
2021. Automated fact-checking for assisting human
fact-checkers. Preprint, arXiv:2103.07769.
OpenAI. 2024. Gpt-4o-mini system card. https://op
enai.com/index/gpt-4o-mini-advancing-cos
t-efficient-intelligence/.
OpenAI. 2025a. Openai o3 and o4-mini system card.
https://openai.com/index/o3-o4-mini-syste
m-card/.
OpenAI. 2025b. Openai o3-mini system card. https:
//openai.com/index/o3-mini-system-card/.
Bhargavi Paranjape, Mandar Joshi, John Thickstun,
Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2020.
An information bottleneck approach for controlling
conciseness in rationale extraction. In Proceedings
of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 1938–
1952, Online. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
Dina Pisarevskaya and Arkaitz Zubiaga. 2025. Zero-
shot and few-shot learning with instruction-following
llms for claim matching in automated fact-checking.
In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference
on Computational Linguistics, pages 9721–9736.
Gorjan Radevski, Kiril Gashteovski, Shahbaz Syed,
Christopher Malon, Sebastien Nicolas, Chia-Chien
Hung, Timo Sztyler, Verena Heußer, Wiem Ben Rim,
Masafumi Enomoto, and 1 others. 2025. On synthe-
sizing data for context attribution in question answer-
ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.05317.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-bert:
Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing. Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics.
Tal Schuster, Sihao Chen, Senaka Buthpitiya, Alex
Fabrikant, and Donald Metzler. 2022. Stretching
sentence-pair NLI models to reason over long doc-
uments and clusters. In Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022, pages
394–412, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics.
7225



===== PAGE 12 =====
Chenglei Si, Navita Goyal, Tongshuang Wu, Chen Zhao,
Shi Feng, Hal Daumé Iii, and Jordan Boyd-Graber.
2024. Large language models help humans verify
truthfulness – except when they are convincingly
wrong. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference of
the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1459–1474,
Mexico City, Mexico. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Aviv Slobodkin, Eran Hirsch, Arie Cattan, Tal Schuster,
and Ido Dagan. 2024. Attribute first, then generate:
Locally-attributable grounded text generation. In
Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 3309–3344, Bangkok, Thailand.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Weiwei Sun, Lingyong Yan, Xinyu Ma, Shuaiqiang
Wang, Pengjie Ren, Zhumin Chen, Dawei Yin, and
Zhaochun Ren. 2023. Is ChatGPT good at search?
investigating large language models as re-ranking
agents. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
ing, pages 14918–14937, Singapore. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
James
Thorne,
Andreas
Vlachos,
Christos
Christodoulopoulos,
and
Arpit
Mittal.
2018.
FEVER: a large-scale dataset for fact extraction
and VERification.
In Proceedings of the 2018
Conference of the North American Chapter of
the Association for Computational Linguistics:
Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long
Papers), pages 809–819, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ellen M. Voorhees and Dawn M. Tice. 2000. The TREC-
8 question answering track. In Proceedings of the
Second International Conference on Language Re-
sources and Evaluation (LREC’00), Athens, Greece.
European Language Resources Association (ELRA).
Hai Wan, Haicheng Chen, Jianfeng Du, Weilin Luo,
and Rongzhen Ye. 2021. A DQN-based approach
to finding precise evidences for fact verification. In
Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics and the 11th
International Joint Conference on Natural Language
Processing (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1030–
1039, Online. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang,
Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao,
Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, Chujie Zheng, Day-
iheng Liu, Fan Zhou, Fei Huang, Feng Hu, Hao
Ge, Haoran Wei, Huan Lin, Jialong Tang, and 41
others. 2025.
Qwen3 technical report.
Preprint,
arXiv:2505.09388.
Zhilin Yang, Peng Qi, Saizheng Zhang, Yoshua Bengio,
William Cohen, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Christo-
pher D. Manning. 2018. HotpotQA: A dataset for
diverse, explainable multi-hop question answering.
In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
2369–2380, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Tianhua Zhang, Hongyin Luo, Yung-Sung Chuang, Wei
Fang, Luc Gaitskell, Thomas Hartvigsen, Xixin Wu,
D. Fox, Helen M. Meng, and James R. Glass. 2023.
Interpretable unified language checking.
ArXiv,
abs/2304.03728.
Liwen Zheng, Chaozhuo Li, Xi Zhang, Yu-Ming Shang,
Feiran Huang, and Haoran Jia. 2024. Evidence re-
trieval is almost all you need for fact verification.
In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: ACL 2024, pages 9274–9281, Bangkok,
Thailand. Association for Computational Linguistics.
7226



===== PAGE 13 =====
A
Task Definition
Following is a formal Evidence Ranking task defi-
nition.
Given a claim c and a set of candidate evidence
sentences S = {s1, . . . , sn}, the goal is to produce
a ranked ordering P = ⟨sp1, . . . , spn⟩of S. At
any decision point i, the accumulated prefix set
Pi = {sp1, . . . , spi}, may be sufficient. We say
that a prefix Pi is sufficient for claim c if the there
exists a subset E ⊆Pi such that E confidently
verify or refute the claim c:
Suf(Pi, c)
≡
∃E ⊆Pi
such that
(E =⇒c) ∨(E =⇒¬c) (1)
The Minimal Sufficient Rank (MSR) is defined
as follows:
MSR(P, c) = min
n
i
 Suf(Pi, c)
o
(2)
We note that this definition holds only for cases
in which there is a sufficient set of evidence. As
this is there case in our dataset the MSR is well
defined.
The objective of the Evidence Ranking task is to
produce an ordering that minimizes MSR.
A.1
Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR).
For a given claim c and a ranked ordering P of
evidence sentences S, we calculate the correspond-
ing Minimal Sufficient Rank and compare it to the
Ideal Minimal Sufficient Rank:
rank = MSR(P, c) −IMSR(S, c) + 1
where
IMSR(S, c) =
min
P∈Π(S) MSR(P, c),
Dataset-level performance is then measured by the
Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), defined as the aver-
age reciprocal rank (
1
rank) across all claims.
A.2
Success Rate
Formally, given the Ideal Minimal Sufficient Rank
(IMSR) of a candidate set S for claim c, SR is
defined as the sufficiency at IMSR:
SR(P, c) = Suf
 PIMSR(S,c), c

.
A.3
Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain
(NDCG)
We adapt Normalized Discounted Cumulative Gain
(NDCG) (Järvelin and Kekäläinen, 2002) to evalu-
ate the quality of evidence rankings beyond iden-
tifying only a minimal sufficient prefix. While
sufficiency-based metrics focus on how quickly ver-
ification becomes possible, NDCG rewards rank-
ings that place all relevant evidence sentences early,
capturing the overall usefulness of the ranking.
For a given claim c and a ranked list of evi-
dence sentences P = (sp1, . . . , spn), relevance is
determined in two steps. First, we restrict atten-
tion to the minimally sufficient prefix Pmsr, where
msr = MSR(P, c) is the smallest rank at which
the accumulated evidence is sufficient to verify or
refute the claim. Second, within this prefix, we
identify the minimal sufficient gold evidence set G,
defined as:
G = arg
min
E∈Π(Pmsr)
n
|E|
 Suf(E, c)
o
,
where Π(Pmsr) denotes all subsets of Pmsr. The
subset G contains exactly the sentences required to
justify the claim.
Only sentences in G are treated as relevant; all
other sentences are considered non-relevant. Given
this relevance assignment, we compute the Dis-
counted Cumulative Gain (DCG) over the prefix
Pmsr:
DCG =
msr
X
i=1
reli
log2(i + 1),
where reli = 1 if spi ∈G and 0 otherwise. The
final NDCG score is obtained by normalizing DCG
by the DCG of the ideal ordering of G:
NDCG = DCG
IDCG.
This normalization bounds scores between 0 and
1, with higher values indicating that the relevant
evidence sentences are ranked closer to the top.
B
Benchmark Construction
To create a robust benchmark for evaluating evi-
dence ranking methods, we carefully selected in-
stances from FEVER (Thorne et al., 2018), HoVer
(Jiang et al., 2020), and WICE (Kamoi et al., 2023)
to ensure coverage of diverse verification scenarios.
FEVER and WiCE are under the Creative Com-
mons Attribution-ShareAlike license, and HoVer
under the CC BY-SA 4.0 license.
7227



===== PAGE 14 =====
First, we considered the amount of evidence re-
quired for verification. Some claims can be veri-
fied using a single sentence, allowing for simple
relevance assessment, while others span multiple
documents and require multiple sentences to be
considered together, testing the model’s ability to
account for redundancy and supplementary infor-
mation.
Second, we accounted for instances with mul-
tiple sets of sufficient evidence versus those with
only a single sufficient set. This enables evalua-
tion not only of whether a model identifies relevant
evidence, but also whether it consistently selects
sentences from the same set that collectively sup-
port or refute the claim.
Third, we ensured representation of both sup-
porting and refuting evidence cases, reflecting the
full range of verification scenarios.
Accordingly, instances were sampled from each
dataset while enforcing constraints to guarantee di-
versity across these characteristics. Approximately
60% of the selected instances contain a single suf-
ficient evidence set, with the remainder containing
2-4 sets. The optimal number of sentences in a
sufficient set is distributed as follows: roughly one
third of instances have size 1, one third size 2, 20%
size 3, and the remaining instances contain 4-9 sen-
tences. Overall, the benchmark includes evidence
spanning from single sentences to larger sets of up
to approximately 60 sentences.
This selection strategy ensures that the bench-
mark evaluates model performance across a wide
spectrum of verification challenges, including
single- versus multi-sentence evidence, multiple
evidence sets, and both supporting and refuting
cases, thereby providing a comprehensive assess-
ment of evidence ranking methods.
C
Ranking Methods Implementation
In this section, we provide a detailed description of
the ranking methods introduced in Section 4.
C.1
LLM
The prompt is shown in Figure 4. We use GPT-4o
and manually optimized the prompt instructions
through iterative testing on development set exam-
ples that were not used in evaluation. For each
model output, we ensured that all sentences were
returned; if not, the model was prompted again, up
to a maximum of five attempts. In cases where not
all sentences were ranked after five attempts, the
remaining unranked sentences were placed at the
end of the ranking in their original reading order.
C.2
Incremental LLM
The incremental LLM ranking uses two prompts.
The first prompt, shown in Figure 5, identifies the
sentence most relevant to supporting or refuting the
claim. Subsequent prompts, shown in Figure 6, are
applied iteratively: at each step, the model selects
the next sentence that, together with the previously
selected sentences, directly and explicitly relates to
the claim. We applied this procedure to all LLMs
described in the study, with prompts manually op-
timized on development set examples not used in
evaluation. The model was always forced to return
a sentence; if no sentence was returned after five
attempts, any remaining unselected sentences were
appended in their original reading order.
C.3
Fine-tuned Reasoning-Based Reranker
The prompt is shown in Figure 7.
We use
ReasonRank-7B and follow the prompt pattern
from (Liu et al., 2025), manually optimizing in-
structions through iterative testing on development
set examples not used in evaluation. To respect the
model’s fine-tuning constraint, which optimizes
ranking for a maximum of 20 items, we implement
a Tournament-style Survival Ranking: we maintain
a "top-tier" window of 20 sentences and iteratively
replace the weakest candidate with the next unseen
sentence to identify the best 20 sentences. The fi-
nal output is a single one-shot ranking of these top
20 sentences; the iterative process is only used to
select them, not to produce an incremental rank-
ing. This ensures the model operates within its
optimal range while producing a meaningful global
ranking.
C.4
Similarity
Algorithm 1 Similarity-based Ranking
scores ←{}
claim_emb ←Embed(claim)
evidence_embs ←EmbedAll(evidence_list)
for emb ∈evidence_embs do
s ←CosSim(claim_emb, emb)
scores[emb] ←s
end for
ranked_evidence ←SortDescending(scores)
return ranked_evidence
Explanation.
The claim and candidate evidence
sentences are first encoded into dense vector repre-
sentations using the BAAI/bge-large-en-v1 em-
7228



===== PAGE 15 =====
You are given:
1. A factual statement.
2. A list of exactly 9 numbered sentences extracted from source documents. Sentence IDs start at
1.
Rank all 9 sentences by how directly and clearly they relate to the factual statement. A sentence
relates to the statement if it clearly provides evidence about it, without requiring inference.
Rank from the most directly informative sentence to the least, and include all sentences.
### OUTPUT FORMAT RULES ###
- Output MUST be a JSON object with sentence IDs as keys and sentence texts as values.
- The order of the key-value pairs in the JSON represents the ranking: the first pair is the most
relevant sentence, the second is next, and so on.
- Example: {{"1": "Sentence text 1", "5": "Sentence text 5", "3":"Sentence text 3"}} means sentence
1 is ranked first, sentence 5 second, and sentence 3 third.
- Do NOT output explanations, reasoning, or any extra text.
- Your ENTIRE response must exactly match the required format.
Statement: Bill Lewis was the head coach of the Georgia Tech football team that finished the
regular season with the same record as the 1981 team.
Sentences:
1.
The 1981 Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets football team represented the Georgia Institute of
Technology during the 1981 NCAA Division I-A football season.
2. The Yellow Jackets were led by second-year head coach Bill Curry, and played their home games
at Grant Field in Atlanta, Georgia.
3. Georgia Tech produced abysmal results for the second consecutive year under Curry, finishing
with a record of 1–10, their worst season in terms of winning percentage in school history (it
would later be matched by another 1-10 season in 1994).
4. The Yellow Jackets were lead by head coach Bill Lewis through eight games, being fired after
going 1-7.
...
Output:
{"1": "The 1981 Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets football teamrepresented the Georgia Institute of
Technology during the 1981NCAA Division I-A football season.",
"4": "The Yellow Jackets were lead by head coach Bill Lewis througheight games, being fired after
going 1-7.",
...
}
Figure 4: Example prompt for LLM evidence ranking. The instructions are depicted in green, input to the model in
black, and model’s output in red.
7229



===== PAGE 16 =====
You are given:
1. A factual statement.
2. A list of numbered sentences extracted from source documents.
Identify exactly one sentence number from the list that directly and explicitly relates to the
factual statement. A sentence relates to the statement if it clearly provides evidence about it,
without requiring inference. Select the single most relevant sentence from the list, choosing the
one that provides the clearest evidence.
### OUTPUT FORMAT RULES ###
- Output MUST consist of ONLY one sentence number in square brackets.
- Example: [2]
- Do NOT output explanations, reasoning, or any extra text.
- Your ENTIRE response must exactly match the required format.
Statement: Bill Lewis was the head coach of the Georgia Tech football team that finished the
regular season with the same record as the 1981 team.
Sentences:
1.
The 1981 Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets football team represented the Georgia Institute of
Technology during the 1981 NCAA Division I-A football season.
2. The Yellow Jackets were led by second-year head coach Bill Curry, and played their home games
at Grant Field in Atlanta, Georgia.
3. Georgia Tech produced abysmal results for the second consecutive year under Curry, finishing
with a record of 1–10, their worst season in terms of winning percentage in school history (it
would later be matched by another 1-10 season in 1994).
4. The Yellow Jackets were lead by head coach Bill Lewis through eight games, being fired after
going 1-7.
...
Output:
[1]
Figure 5: Example prompt for the first step in the incremental LLM evidence ranking, in which we don’t have any
selected sentences yet. The instructions are depicted in green, input to the model in black, and model’s output in red.
This prompt is intended for selecting the first sentence freely, without restrictions, i.e., it does not depend on any
previously chosen sentences.
7230



===== PAGE 17 =====
You are given:
1. A factual statement.
2. A list of numbered sentences extracted from source documents.
3. A list of sentences labeled "used" (given as raw text, not sentence numbers) that have already
been selected as relevant evidence.
Identify exactly one additional sentence number from the numbered list that, when combined with
the "used" sentences, directly and explicitly relates to the factual statement. Do NOT re-select
any sentences whose text appears in the "used" sentences list.
Select the single most relevant new sentence from the list, choosing the one that provides the
clearest evidence.
### OUTPUT FORMAT RULES ###
- Output MUST consist of ONLY one newly selected sentence number in square brackets.
- Example: [2]
- Do NOT output explanations, reasoning, or any extra text.
- Your ENTIRE response must exactly match the required format.
Statement: Bill Lewis was the head coach of the Georgia Tech football team that finished the
regular season with the same record as the 1981 team.
Sentences:
1.
The 1981 Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets football team represented the Georgia Institute of
Technology during the 1981 NCAA Division I-A football season.
2. The Yellow Jackets were led by second-year head coach Bill Curry, and played their home games
at Grant Field in Atlanta, Georgia.
3. Georgia Tech produced abysmal results for the second consecutive year under Curry, finishing
with a record of 1–10, their worst season in terms of winning percentage in school history (it
would later be matched by another 1-10 season in 1994).
4. The Yellow Jackets were lead by head coach Bill Lewis through eight games, being fired after
going 1-7.
...
Output:
[3]
Figure 6: Example prompt for incremental LLM evidence ranking. The instructions are depicted in green, input
to the model in black, and model’s output in red. In this prompt, the selection depends on the sentences that have
already been chosen and ranked in previous iterations.
7231



===== PAGE 18 =====
You are RankLLM, an intelligent assistant that can rank sentences based on their relevance to a
factual statement.
Given a factual statement and a sentence list, first think about the reasoning process in your
mind, and then provide the reranked sentence list.
Enclose the reasoning and answer within <think> and <answer> tags, respectively, i.e., <think>
reasoning here </think> <answer> answer here </answer>.
You will be provided 9 sentences, each indicated by a numerical identifier.
Rank the sentences based on their relevance to the factual statement.
Sentences:
1.
The 1981 Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets football team represented the Georgia Institute of
Technology during the 1981 NCAA Division I-A football season.
2. The Yellow Jackets were led by second-year head coach Bill Curry, and played their home games
at Grant Field in Atlanta, Georgia.
3. Georgia Tech produced abysmal results for the second consecutive year under Curry, finishing
with a record of 1–10, their worst season in terms of winning percentage in school history (it
would later be matched by another 1-10 season in 1994).
4. The Yellow Jackets were lead by head coach Bill Lewis through eight games, being fired after
going 1-7.
...
Factual Statement: Bill Lewis was the head coach of the Georgia Tech football team that finished
the regular season with the same record as the 1981 team.
All the sentences should be included and listed using identifiers, in descending order of relevance.
The format of the answer should be [] > [], e.g., [2] > [1].
Output:
<think> reasoning about which sentences best support or refute the statement </think>
<answer> [1] > [4] > [2] > [3] > ... </answer>
Figure 7: Example prompt for fine-tuned reasoning-based reranker (ReasonRank-7B). The instructions are depicted
in green, input sentences in black, and model output in red. The reranker processes up to 20 sentences per batch,
with reasoning enclosed in <think> tags and final ranking in <answer> tags.
7232



===== PAGE 19 =====
bedding model. Cosine similarity is then computed
between the claim embedding and each evidence
embedding, producing a similarity score for every
candidate. These scores are stored in a dictionary
mapping each evidence sentence to its similarity
value. Finally, the evidence is ranked in descend-
ing order of similarity, ensuring that sentences most
relevant to the claim appear first.
C.5
Incremental Similarity-based Ranking
Algorithm 2 Incremental Similarity-based Rank-
ing
ranked_evidence ←[]
claim_emb ←Embed(claim)
evidence_embs ←EmbedAll(evidence_list)
selected_indices ←{}
for i = 1 to length of evidence_list do
best_idx ←None
best_score ←−1
for each idx, emb in evidence_embs do
if idx ∈selected_indices then continue
end if
avg_emb ←avg(ranked_evidence_embs + emb)
sim_score ←CosSim(claim_emb, avg_emb)
if sim_score > best_score then
best_idx ←idx
best_score ←sim_score
end if
end for
Add best_idx to selected_indices
Append evidence_list[best_idx] to ranked_evidence
end for
return ranked_evidence
Explanation.
The claim and candidate evidence
sentences are first encoded into dense vector repre-
sentations using the BAAI/bge-large-en-v1 em-
bedding model. The algorithm then selects evi-
dence iteratively: at each step, it chooses the sen-
tence that maximizes cosine similarity to the claim.
From the second iteration onward, the similarity is
computed between the claim embedding and the
average embedding of the previously selected ev-
idence combined with each remaining candidate.
This ensures that each newly selected sentence com-
plements the already chosen evidence to maximize
relevance. The process continues until all evidence
is ranked, producing an ordered list where sen-
tences most relevant to the claim appear first.
C.6
Fine-tuned NLI-based Ranking
Algorithm 3 NLI-based Ranking of Evidence
scores ←ComputeNLI(claim, evidence_list)
strongest_label
←
RetrieveAndRerank(claim, scores, top_k)
ranked_evidence
←
SortDescending(scores, key
=
strongest_label)
return ranked_evidence
Explanation.
In the first step, we computed
the NLI score for each candidate evidence
sentence with respect to the claim using the
NLI-DeBERTa-v3-large model, producing sup-
port and refute probabilities. Subsequently, we
applied the Retrieve-and-Rerank procedure (Schus-
ter et al., 2022) on the same NLI scores to identify
which sentences exhibit stronger support for or refu-
tation of the claim. Based on the strongest label de-
termined in this step, the evidence sentences were
sorted according to their corresponding NLI scores,
producing a ranked list of evidence. Importantly,
both steps rely exclusively on the same fine-tuned
NLI model; the uniqueness of this approach lies in
the algorithmic procedure that leverages the model
in two complementary stages to achieve more ef-
fective ranking of evidence.
Ranking Method
NDCG ↑
One-Shot Similarity
0.77±0.01
Incremental Similarity
0.79±0.01
One-Shot Fine-tuned NLI
0.57±0.01
One-Shot Fine-tuned Reranker
0.89±0.0
GPT-4o
One-Shot LLM
0.91±0.0
Incremental LLM
0.90±0.0
Qwen3-235B-A22B-Instruct
One-Shot LLM
0.91±0.0
Incremental LLM
0.92±0.0
Table 6: NDCG across different ranking methods along
with their standard error (SEM, see H for details).
D
NDCG Results
We also report NDCG scores for all ranking meth-
ods (Table 6), providing a measure of ranking qual-
ity that accounts for the positions of all relevant
sentences. The overall trends align with MRR and
success rate: LLM-based methods and the fine-
tuned reasoning-based reranker achieve the highest
7233



===== PAGE 20 =====
NDCG, indicating that they effectively prioritize
the most informative sentences early in the ranking.
Similarity-based methods achieve moderate NDCG
values, while fine-tuned NLI-based approaches per-
form substantially worse. These results confirm
that methods which better capture informative and
complementary sentences not only improve top-k
coverage but also produce higher-quality overall
rankings.
Figure 8: Accumulative recall as a function of the num-
ber of sentences that the user has read. For LLM-based
approaches, we find that the trend changes after six sen-
tences. In other words, if the user did not find sufficient
evidence in the first six sentences, they will likely have
to read an excessive amount of sentences.
E
Analysis of Qwen3-235B-Thinking
Behavior
The Qwen3-235B-Thinking model often provides
detailed per-sentence reasoning, but does not pro-
duce a valid selection of the next sentence. In
such cases, we defaulted to the textual order of
sentences (i.e. their reading sequence), which nat-
urally limited the observed performance. We ex-
perimented with different prompt variations and
techniques, including structured output formats to
enforce ranking selection. While structured output
helped the model consistently produce a selection,
it ultimately resulted in worse overall performance;
therefore, we report results using the prompt with
detailed instructions that balances reasoning and
ranking accuracy.
For example, see Fig. 9. These citations col-
lectively illustrate the behavior of Qwen3-235B-
Thinking. The model produces thorough, step-by-
step reasoning across multiple sentences but does
not consistently select the most relevant sentence
Claim: Despicable Me 2 was directed by a lake
Output:
1.
...Sentence 2:
’the film is directed
by Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud’ – ’the
film’ refers to Despicable Me 2 from context,
as it is mentioned in the sentence about
Despicable
Me
2.
Looking
back:
Sentence
2
starts
with
’Produced
by
Illumination
Entertainment
for
Universal
Pictures,
and
animated by Illumination Mac Guff, the film
is directed...’ and ’the film’ is Despicable
Me
2,
as
per
the
beginning.
Similarly,
Sentence 14 explicitly says ’Despicable Me
2’.
Sentence 14:
’including Despicable Me
and Despicable Me 2,
which he co-directed
with Pierre Coffin’.
Sentence 17 says ’the
films in the Despicable Me franchise’, which
includes Despicable Me 2. ...
2. ...But let’s see Sentence 14: ’Despicable
Me
2,
which
he
co-directed
with
Pierre
Coffin’ – ’he’ refers to Chris Renaud, so
it
is
explicit.
Similarly,
Sentence
17:
’co-directing, with Chris Renaud, the films’
–
so
Pierre
Coffin
co-directed.
But
for
Despicable Me 2 specifically,
Sentence 14
mentions it by name. ...
3. ...Sentence 12: ’Chris Renaud -LRB- born
December 1966 -RRB- is an American illustrator
and filmmaker.’ ...
Figure 9: Example output of Qwen3-235B-Thinking.
at each step. For instance, while sentences 2, 14,
and 17 provide key evidence about Despicable Me
2 and its directors, the model spreads its attention
across them without prioritizing the most critical
one. Sentence 12 is necessary to verify that Chris
Renaud is an American filmmaker, yet the model
does not explicitly link it to the claim, leaving some
aspects unresolved. As a result, although the model
demonstrates strong per-sentence reasoning, it does
not produce a clear next-step selection, which com-
plicates ranking and can lead to missing crucial
information.
F
Analysis of Incremental NLI
Performance
We observed that the incremental NLI strat-
egy underperforms the non-incremental approach.
This is primarily due to the limitations of
NLI-DeBERTa-v3-large, which is trained on
single-premise, single-hypothesis pairs and is not
designed to handle concatenated multi-sentence
input.
When sentences are concatenated, the
7234



===== PAGE 21 =====
model evaluates unnatural, multi-sentence inputs,
which can reduce its ability to accurately as-
sess the relevance of each sentence for verifica-
tion. As a result, the incremental NLI approach
achieves slightly lower performance than the non-
incremental method, with MRR of 0.29 (vs. 0.31),
Success Rate of 22.3% (vs. 22.5%), and NDCG
of 0.55 (vs. 0.57). In practice, this leads to mis-
ranking of important sentences and lower overall
effectiveness. This example highlights why incre-
mental selection, while effective for LLM-based
methods, is less suitable for NLI models due to
architectural and training constraints.
G
Detailed Qualitative Analysis
Figure 10 illustrates the ranking sequence for the
example discussed in Section 6.5. The incremental
LLM-based method reached gold coverage after
reading 4 sentences, while the one-shot LLM re-
quired 5. The fine-tuned reasoning-based reranker
also required 4 sentences to reach sufficient evi-
dence. For similarity-based methods, incremental
similarity needed 6 sentences and one-shot similar-
ity 8 sentences to cover sufficient evidence. Our
analysis revealed that, in addition to relevant sen-
tences, highly ranked sentences often included ones
not part of any gold set; these were topically related
to the claim but lacked the information necessary to
support or refute it, which accounts for their high
ranking. The fine-tuned NLI approach required 14
sentences in total.
H
Standard Error of the Mean (SEM)
Calculation
For each ranking method, we report the standard
error of the mean (SEM) to indicate variability
across instances. SEM is computed as:
SEM =
σ
√n
where σ is the standard deviation of the metric
values across all instances, and n is the number
of instances in the dataset. This provides an esti-
mate of the uncertainty of the reported mean per-
formance metrics (MRR, SR and NDCG) for each
method.
I
User Study Details
I.1
Participants
Five fluent English speakers with a computer-
science background participated in the study. All
participants provided informed consent.
I.2
Materials and Design
We used 100 claims from our curated dataset. To
avoid carryover effects, the claims were partitioned
into five disjoint subsets; each participant saw 40
unique trials (20 per condition). No claim appeared
twice for any participant. Each trial consisted of a
claim paired with evidence produced by one of the
evaluated systems:
• Evidence Ranking: Incremental LLM evi-
dence ranking with GPT-4o.
• LLM Evidence Selection: Sentence-level ev-
idence selection method adapted from (Hirsch
et al., 2025).
I.3
Procedure
A web-based interface presented one claim per trial,
with the interaction logic determined by the experi-
mental condition.
Evidence Ranking Condition: As shown in
Figure 11, participants initially viewed only the
top-ranked sentence. They could incrementally
reveal additional evidence by clicking “show next
sentence” once they judged the current information
insufficient to reach a decision.
Evidence Selection Condition: As shown in
Figure 12, participants viewed all system-selected
sentences simultaneously. They had no control over
the disclosure of information and were presented
with the full set of evidence at once.
I.4
Measures
For each trial, we recorded: (1) participant’s final
decision, (2) whether the decision matched the gold
label, and (3) the number of evidence sentences
read.
These measures capture both verification accu-
racy and information efficiency, enabling analysis
of user reading effort and model performance in
practical verification scenarios.
7235



===== PAGE 22 =====
Claim:
One of his tasks was to prepare the ground for the reintroduction of compulsory national service;
the new scheme was enacted in 1951 and remained in force until 1959.
Gold verdict: supported.
Gold optimal evidence sets:
Set 1:
[9] In the context of the intensification of the Cold War in Europe, Communist insurgency and
success in South-East Asia, and the declaration of war in Korea, the Menzies government sponsored
the National Service Act 1951.
[18] On 24 November 1959 Cabinet decided that National Service call-ups should be terminated and
that arrangements for the January 1960 intake would be cancelled.
Set 2:
[14] The first call-up notice was issued on 12 April 1951.
[18] On 24 November 1959 Cabinet decided that National Service call-ups should be terminated and
that arrangements for the January 1960 intake would be cancelled.
All evidence sets:
1. [9,18]
2. [14,18]
3. [1,10,14]
Output rankings provided by the different methods:
LLM: [9,10,15,14,18,...]
Incremental LLM: [9,14,10,18,...]
Fine-tuned Reasoning-Based Reranker: [9,10,15,18,...]
Similarity: [20,18,8,1,10,19,15,14,...]
Incremental Similarity: [20,10,8,18,12,9,...]
Fine-tuned NLI: [16,18,10,12,32,29,25,13,31,7,11,19,17,14,...]
Figure 10: Illustrative example from the dataset showing ranked sentences for each method until one gold set is
fully covered. Sentences in green belong to the covered gold set, yellow indicates sentences from other gold sets not
yet covered, and black marks sentences that are not part of any gold set.
7236



===== PAGE 23 =====
Figure 11: Evidence Ranking Condition Interface. The interface allows users to reveal evidence incrementally,
supporting an active search and verification process.
Figure 12: LAQuer Condition Interface. The interface presents all system-selected sentences at once, allowing for
immediate global assessment of the claim’s validity.
7237
